More background (#28)
abetterinternet/prio-documents: design-document.md

The protocol is executed by a large set of clients and a small set of
servers.  We call the servers the *aggregators*. Each client's input to
the protocol is a set of measurements (e.g., counts of some user behavior).
Given the input set of measurements x[1], ..., x[n] held by n users, the goal is to
compute y = F(x[1], ..., x[n]) for some aggregation function F, while
revealing nothing else about the measurements.

### Secret sharing

Prio achieves this goal using additive secret sharing. Rather than send its
input in the clear, each client "splits" its measurements into a sequence of "shares"
and sends a share to each of the aggregators. This secret-sharing procedure has
two important properties: first, it is impossible to deduce the measurement given only
a proper subset of the shares; and second, it allows the aggregators to compute
the final output by first adding up their measurements shares locally, then combining
the results to obtain the final output.

Consider an illustrative example. Suppose there are three clients and
two aggregators. Each client i holds a single measurement in the form of
a positive integer x[i], and our goal is to compute the sum of the

> measurements of all clients. Using an additive secret-sharing scheme, the first client splits its
> measurement x[1] into a pair of integers x[1,1] and x[1,2] for which x[1] =
> x[1,1] + x[1,2] modulo a prime p. (For convenience, we will omit the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
measurements of all clients. In this case, the protocol input is a single measurement consisting of 
a single positive integer; no additional encoding is done. Given this input, the first client splits its
measurement x[1] with additive secret-sharing into a pair of integers x[1,1] and x[1,2] for which 
x[1] = x[1,1] + x[1,2] modulo a prime p. (For convenience, we will omit the
```

parameters that are centrally configured and provided to each client:

- A unique identifier (e.g., "dns-queries-mean")
- A description of how to collect the measurement (e.g., "count
  the number of DNS queries")
- The statistic to be computed over the measurement values (e.g., mean)
- The rules for what constitutes a valid value (e.g., must be between 0
  and 10000)

Once the client has collected the measurements to send, it needs to
turn them into a set of reports. Naively, each measurement would be
sent in its own report, but it is also possible to have multiple
measurements in a single report; clients need to be configured with
the mapping from measurements to reports. The set of measurements
that go into a report is referred to as the "input" to the report.
Because each report is independent, for the remainder of this document
we focus on a single report and its inputs.

The client uses the statistic to be computed in order to know how to
encode the measurement. For instance, if the statistic is mean, then
the measurement can be encoded directly. However, if the statistic is
standard deviation, then the client must send both x and x^2.  Section

> [TODO] describes how to encode measurements for each statistic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{CITE}} describes how to encode measurements for each statistic.
```

Author: I think this is actually going to be a cross-reference to some to-be-written section of this doc.

Reviewer 2: Indeed. "{{CITE}}" the way we've been writing this.

Author: That's not going to be ideal if/when we want to turn this into an IETF draft, b/c it will cause the formatter to choke.
